using the word Shakespeare within any
classroom in the 21st century has become
almost as dangerous for teachers as
putting balloons in a toaster after
uttering the simple word the common
feature is met with a massive groans
moans devastating books and the
occasional chair tossed in his or her
direction but Shakespearean works are
not boring confusing long and painful
plays written more than four hundred
years ago their adventures relating to
the extremities of human nature love
hate jealousy zealous ambition fear
mistrust deception and murder we owe
much of our own language to his
invention he invented over 2,000 words
for use in his plays which still remain
in the Oxford English Dictionary words
like countless and assassination as well
as phrases like one fell swoop foul play
and even to be in a pickle all
originated from Williams brilliant brain
and there are many echoes of
Shakespeare's romantic language too if
you read Romeo and Juliet you'll come
across sentences like she doth teach the
torches to burn bright and so shows a
snowy dove trooping with crows both are
quite clever metaphors suggesting that
Juliet is both exceptionally beautiful
and far more so than anyone else for
thou art as glorious to this night being
over my head as a winged messenger of
heaven is a simile suggesting angelic
qualities of the lady in question this
is not too different from today's
comments like a beautiful and you're the
hottest girl in the room Shakespeare
also uses slightly more complex
metaphors to describe the intentions of
a mischievous man for instance this holy
shrine the gentle sin is this my lips
two blushing pilgrims ready stand to
smooth that rough touch with a tender
kiss essentially means I wish to kiss
you such male intentions were not
limited to simple pecs on the cheek
either an intentional ambiguity was
often used as a cheeky means to
proposition marriage or a more intimate
relationship therefore instead of
viewing Shakespearean works as outdated
boring and unhelpful start reading today
and discover the best ways to get the
one you love to love you back
you